Script config (#7157)
medic/cht-core: tests/scalability/README.md

Once the medic script completes we begin setting up for jmeter. The `start_jmeter_ec2.sh` script launches a new ec2 instance with the `user-data` script at `cht-core/tests/scalability/run_suite.sh`. 

The script clones cht-core and navigates to the scalability dir. Then installs java, nodejs, jmeter, and its plugins. Executes the scalability suite which is defined in the `cht-core/tests/scalability/sync.jmx`, and finally it uploads the results to an s3 bucket. 

## Distributed Workflow

![Diagram of our current setup.](jmeter_distributed.png)

Our current setup has 1 ec2 instance acting as the JMeter Orchestrator with 2 worker nodes. This can generate 1400 virtual users. Against our Application environment under test. 

### Setup

1. Launch an ec2 instance c5.2xlarge(Orchestrator)
1. Launch 2 ec2 instances of c5.4xlarge(Worker)
1. SSH into each of these machines. 

> 1. Copy `tests/scalability/run_suite.sh` to the user directory. From this branch.

Author: I see what you mean. I guess I was referring to `~/`. I will clarify.

> 1. Execute the `run_suite.sh`. This clones cht-core, installs JAVA, installs Node 14, runs npm install, installs JMeter, and its plugins.

Author: Do we need this? `chmod +x run_suite.sh` I thought git stored the execute permission of the file and when you scp it executed fine.

> 1. Execute the `run_suite.sh`. This clones cht-core, installs JAVA, installs Node 14, runs npm install, installs JMeter, and its plugins.

Reviewer: Yes, git does! However, this script is what copies the repo down, so we had to get it otherwise. I used `wget` which doesn't of course preserve the execute bit.

> 1. Execute the `run_suite.sh`. This clones cht-core, installs JAVA, installs Node 14, runs npm install, installs JMeter, and its plugins.

Author: good point!

> 1. Update the `config.json` to ensure the users and URL are correct.

Author: > are these valid names? Some of them have invalid chars for user names (eg (), so I wanted to confirm.
They are. 
> are these a copy of valid names from production? If yes, maybe we shouldn't publish them on GH? Kinda too late b/c we can't easily remove from the repo (rebase I guess?), but noteworthy if we don't want to publish them.

I agree, that was my fault and pushing them. The envs with these user and password combo will go away eventually but still reckless.  I'll sanitize the proper merge.

> 1. Split the `config.json` using `tests/scalability/ec2/split_config.js`. JMeter does not send any data to the workers. All it does is trigger the action to run as if you were doing it manually on that machine. You will need to split the `config.json` to have users for each worker node. 

Author: I'll update. This likely to be run on whomevers machine and then copy directly to a node. Definitely need an `npm install` for that script.

> 1. Create a [RMI key](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/remote-test.html#setup_ssl) 

Author: yeah automating the whole process is the ideal state and would take care of this. It's going to be a hefty effort but is ideal.

> 1. Create a [RMI key](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/remote-test.html#setup_ssl) 

Reviewer: oh yeah! i also see that they need all the same cert info - so having the script generate it in 3 different places won't work - you'll have two extra copies.

The script clones cht-core and navigates to the scalability dir. Then installs java, nodejs, jmeter, and its plugins. Executes the scalability suite which is defined in the `cht-core/tests/scalability/sync.jmx`, and finally it uploads the results to an s3 bucket. 

## Distributed Workflow

![Diagram of our current setup.](jmeter_distributed.png)

Our current setup has 1 ec2 instance acting as the JMeter Orchestrator with 2 worker nodes. This can generate 1400 virtual users. Against our Application environment under test. 

### Setup

1. Launch an ec2 instance c5.2xlarge(Orchestrator)
1. Launch 2 ec2 instances of c5.4xlarge(Worker)
1. SSH into each of these machines. 
1. Copy `tests/scalability/run_suite.sh` to the user directory. From this branch.
1. On each of the three VMs, call  `chmod +x run_suite.sh&&./run_suite.sh` . This clones cht-core, installs JAVA, installs Node 14, runs npm install, installs JMeter, and its plugins.
1. On just the orchestrator node, update the `cht-core/tests/scalability/config.json` to ensure the users and URL are correct.
1. Split the `config.json` on the orchestrator
    1. `cd cht-core/tests/scalability`

>     1. `npm install` 

Reviewer: i had to do `sudo npm install -g grunt-cli` before `npm install` worked.

Author: hmm I don't know why you'd have to install grunt as this package.json doesn't have it as a dep.  I launched a fresh ubuntu container, installed node/npm,  cloned the repo, `cd cht-core/tests/scalability`, then `npm install`. Were you in a different directory or something? I'm not able to recreate this.

Reviewer: ah - yup that was totally me - sorry! I was in `cht-core`.  Indeed, I just retested and being in `cht-core/tests/scalability` and `npm install` ran fine as did the `split_config.js` script!

>     1. Using `node tests/scalability/ec2/split_config.js --workerCount 2 --filePath = './config.json`

Reviewer: Missing closing quote, corrected path based on `cd` above, node wasn't happy w/ the spaces for last argument so remove `=` for parity with prior argument:

```suggestion
    1. Using `node ec2/split_config.js --workerCount 2 --filePath './config.json'`
```

    
    NOTE: JMeter does not send any data to the workers. All it does is trigger the action to run as if you were doing it manually on that machine. You will need to split the `config.json` to have users for each worker node. 
1. On the orchestrator node, create a [RMI key](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/remote-test.html#setup_ssl) 

> 1. Copy `rmi_keystore.jks` (RMI Key) and `config.json` split to the two worker nodes into `cht-core/tests/scalability/.`. Each worker node should get a different config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy `rmi_keystore.jks` (RMI Key) and `config-N.json` files (one per worker node, `config-0.json`  and `config-1.json`) to the two worker nodes into `cht-core/tests/scalability/.`. Each worker node should get a different config file.
```

Author: Added a bit more detail on what happens when split and ensuring the generated file `conf-N` is copied and renamed to `config.json`

    1. `cd cht-core/tests/scalability`
    1. `rm -rf report/ report_remote/`
    1. `./jmeter/bin/jmeter -n  -t sync.jmx -Gnumber_of_threads=700 -Gramp_up_period=5 -Gworking_dir=/home/ubuntu/cht-core/tests/scalability/ -Gnode_binary=/usr/bin/node -l ./report_remote/cli_run.jtl -e -o ./report_remote -R 3.8.93.43,3.11.81.213`

    NOTE: The params as listed. 
    * `-Gnumber_of_threads` number of virtual users. If you have a `config.json` with the number of users matching number of threads. You will have 1 unique user per thread. If your config is less it will reuse users. 
    * `-Gramp_up_period` number of seconds before the next thread starts. 
    * `-Gworking_dir` working directory on the worker node. This is the same since we are using the `run_suite.sh` to setup everything. 
    * `-Gnode_binary` path to node on the worker node.
    * `-l ./report_remote/cli_run.jtl` output file on the orchestrator
    * `-R 3.8.93.43,3.11.81.213` comma separated list of the worker nodes ip addresses. 
  1. Review the results in `cht-core/tests/scalability/report_remote`. The cli_run.jtl is the raw results. There should be a generated report with an `index.html` to view as well. 

>   NOTE: Review the `jmeter-server.log` or `jmeter.log` files in the `cht-core/tests/scalability` dir for real time details. 

Reviewer: we should likely add `report_remote` and `jmeter-server.log` and `jmeter.log` to the repos (or this dir's) `.gitignore`, yeah?

Author: I'll add them. I guess I assumed you'd never be committing and running from the same machine.
